[Music]
so here's something that could save your
life how to avoid an attack if you're
being followed or watched this may
happen to anybody you're walking home
and suddenly notice that somebody is
following you the first absolutely
natural reaction can be to feel fear or
to start panicking however in most cases
there's no need for such destructive
emotions there are several ways how to
protect yourself from being attacked or
robbed remember you should stay alert at
all times anytime you're going home
taking the dog for a walk
strolling the streets on your own stay
focused and observant glance around and
behind yourself every half minute or so
try to notice everything out of the
ordinary and analyze the situation and
if your instinct or reason tells you
that someone is stalking you it's time
for some actions first of all make sure
that a stranger is following you to
check this casually stop pretend to be
tying a shoelace or searching for
something in your bag or pocket scan
people behind your back memorizing some
details of their appearance clothes
height hair color perhaps you'll
recognize somebody you've noticed
earlier pretend to be unaware make some
stops look in store windows take a break
to admire a pretty car choosing the dark
ones this way you might be able to see
your stalkers reflection pretend to fix
your hair using the side mirror of a
parked motorbike or car
cross the street cross the street as if
you need to do this another option is to
turn the corner
this makes the task more difficult for
the person following you if you're lucky
they may even lose you in a crowd around
a building or behind cars if this
doesn't work take another turn cross
another Street and try to be as
unpredictable as you can stop as much as
possible at some unexpected places
don't use the route you usually take to
get home get a cup of coffee on the way
visit a friend in their office go
shopping at a big mall turn around and
look at your stalker
don't be embarrassed to turn around and
check who is following you this way you
confront the danger head-on what is more
you immediately alert the person who is
after you that you're well aware that
they are on your tail sometimes it's
enough to cause a person to stop but
anyway don't try to stare down the
potential attacker your attempt will
most likely fail contact friends and
relatives if you've made sure that you
can't get rid of the stalker text or
call those of your friends or family
members who are likely to be nearby ask
them to meet you as soon as possible
it's better if you can gather a group of
them as many people around you will most
probably deter your follower make sure
that you meet with your friends in a
public place a shopping center cafe or
restaurant if you ask a friend to pick
you up by car tell them to do this in a
public area as well
[Music]
call the police if you feel that you're
in immediate danger and there's no
people around call emergency services if
your cell phone's battery is dead or you
can't use it under any establishment on
your way inform them that you're being
followed and asked them to call the
police
during the conversation with the police
station tell them that someone is
stalking you and you are worried about
your life try to provide as much
information as possible about your
location and the person who is after you
after that follow their instructions to
the letter
scream yell and make as much noise as
possible if you don't have any chance to
call the police or your friends try to
make as much noise as possible even if
you simply shout help me or fire the
criminal might get scared away if not
try to get away yourself run away don't
feel embarrassed to start running
however by no means move down any
alleyways corridors or streets with only
a couple of ways in or out you can get
trapped there go to areas full of people
first of all your stalker may lose you
among the other people secondly they
will unlikely hurt or robbed you in
front of others so you need to find
streets where traffic both car and
pedestrian is heavy choose a group of
people and join them look for a cafe
gallery people standing in line anywhere
where your stalker won't be able to stay
unnoticed try to change your appearance
take off your coat remove a scarf from
your neck put on a hat or sunglasses if
you believe that the potential attacker
has lost track of you jog away if you
notice a fire or police station
ambulance building or a hospital run
there to find safety
don't head for your home that might be
something the criminal is provoking you
to do there's a threat that they can
corner you there while you're trying to
get inside or they might want to return
later to break in don't go home unless
you're 100% sure that nobody is
following you however slim there are
some chances that even after you did all
of this the stalker will still be
following you most followers escape as
soon as you start to scream and draw
attention to yourself they are scared of
being caught or memorized but if the
person is still after you this means
that they really plan to harm you if the
criminal gets ahold of you don't
hesitate and give them all the money and
other valuables you have with you in
this case there's a chance they won't
hurt you this may seem unfair but it's
better to lose your phone and wallet
than to spend months in a hospital
trying to recover so be cooperative
listen to the criminal don't talk and
follow their instructions if a person
threatens you with a knife or a gun such
cooperation will lower the chances that
they will harm you don't try to grab the
attackers weapon this may complicate the
Sitton immensely don't talk back and
don't give them attitude but this is the
best-case scenario when the follower
wants just your money or a cell phone
but if they want to harm you that's a
different story
knowing the principles of self-defense
can come in really handy but don't take
marshall poses if you don't have the
slightest idea how they work if you
understand that you're being attacked
use everything you have at hand to fight
off the criminal Keis a heavy bag
fingers fists a book you can use
anything to protect yourself
kick the assailant in the groin region
poke their eyes scratch bite strike them
in the face with the open hand your life
can depend on that
remember to yell all the time somebody
might eventually come to rescue so do
you know any other tips that can help
you if somebody is following you
right about this in the comments below
this information may save somebody's
life one day share this video with those
of your friends who have to return home
alone in the evening hit the like button
so that we know that this video has been
useful for you and to get access to many
more informative interesting and
entertaining videos subscribe to our
Channel join us on the bright side of
life
[Music]